# TAMA-GATCHA!
By Real Fancy Fire

#### Name

The project name is "tamagacha" (no hyphen, no 't' in 'gacha', no exclamation mark). \
The game title is "Tama-Gatcha!", stylized as "TAMA-GATCHA!".

### Links

Github: https://github.com/Mediocre-Mr-Fish/tamagacha \
Itch.io: https://mediocre-mr-fish.itch.io/tamagacha

## Gameplay

*Tama-Gatcha!* is a hybrid virtual pet and gacha game where you can collect pets, feed them, play with them, and find new home for them.

Caring for pets involves managing two aspects, the pet's hunger and its happiness.
Feeding your pet will restore its hunger.
Playing games with your pet will restore its happiness.
Once you're ready to send them to their forever home, you can send them on their way with the 'adopt' menu.
If they were happy, they'll even leave you a gift!

Snacks and new pets can be obtained in the 'gacha' menu.
Each pull of the gacha machine requires a ticket.
Up to 10 tickets can be spent at a time.
Tickets can be obtained by playing games with your pets.
Additonally, shards can be spent to skew the roll towards rarer prizes.
Shards are applied per roll to every simutaneous roll, so 10 rolls with 1 shard each costs 10 shards.

### Grim Mode

__!! This section contains spoilers !!__

Grim Mode reveals the hidden gruesomeness behind the pet pipeline.
Pet food is made from surrendered pets.
Shards are actually pet bones.
Unhappy pets find their exit themselves.

Some minigames are only available in Grim Mode.

## Add-on Support

Tama-Gatcha was designed with modularity in mind. Additional minigames and pets can be added to the game simply by placing the add-on carts into the `games/` and `pets/` folders respectively. The game will detect any carts in these folders on startup.

See [below](#creating-add-ons) for how to create new add-ons.

## Demo Versions

This project may be run as a demo or non-demo version. To switch between the two, copy and rename `inlcudes/IS_DEMO_true.p8.lua` or `inlcudes/IS_DEMO_false.p8.lua` respectively to `inlcudes/IS_DEMO.p8.lua`.

### Differences

| Feature | Demo | Non-Demo |
|-|-|-|
| Add-on support | Built-in, cannot change| Detects local files  |
| Add-ons        | 4 minigames, 5 pets | As many as installed |
| Collection Viewer | Included | Included |
| Asset Gallery     | No  | Included |
| Save Data       | Reset from main menu  | Editable via save editor cart |

## Exporting

Automated export tools are only available on Windows. Exports can still be performed manually via PICO-8 itself.


### Commands
```cmd
make_demo.bat <path\to\ouput>
```
Create a demo export. The output path must end with `.bin` or `.html`. The resulting demo's folder will be named with `_bin` or `_html` respectively. HTML exports will also generate a `_html.zip` archive.

The demo will include `tamagatcha.p8`, `collection.p8`, and all `.p8` files in `assets/`, as well as a hard-coded list of add-on carts. The list is hard-coded since demo versions have a limit on the number of carts able to be bundled and are not able to detect installed files at the location of execution. The list of addons is defined in `make_demo_bat` and in `inlcudes/IS_DEMO_true.p8.lua`.

Add-on List:
- `games/fishing.p8`
- `games/math.p8`
- `games/maze.p8`
- `games/_secret.p8`
- `pets/duk.p8`
- `pets/che.p8`
- `pets/ymk.p8`
- `pets/owl.p8`
- `pets/hrs.p8`

```cmd
make_png.bat <path\to\ouput>
```
Export all carts as `.p8.png`. These are exported as non-demo versions.

## Creating Add-ons

### Pets

The majority of a pet add-on's data is encoded in its sprite sheet.
Data regarding sprites themselves are doubly-encoded into the cart's map data then back into the sprite sheet. This data can be easily generated by using 
```
#include pet.p8.lua
```
in the pet's cart code
(Note that `pet.p8.lua` is found in the `pets/` folder instead of the `includes/` folder).

In the cart code, create a table assigned to the variable `pet` that includes the following fields:
- `transparent`: An integer specifying what color to treat as transparent. Note this applies to all spites. 
- `rarity`: An integer between `1` and `5` inclusive specifying which loot pool the pet appears in.
- `immortal`: `0` or `1` specifying if the pet is immortal. Immortal pets will not die if their hunger and happiness are empty (and thus, can still be fed and play games), and will use non-Grim animations even in Grim Mode.
- `meat`: An integer between `0` and `255` inclusive specifying how much food the pet gives when recycled. The amount is multiplied by 4.
- `bone`: An integer between `0` and `255` inclusive specifying how many bones the pet gives when recycled.
- `variants`: An ordered table of variants. Each entry is, itself, a table that specifies a pallet swap, represented by a mapping of colors (integers) to colors (integers). These tables have the following fields:
  - `name`: A string specifying the name of the variant.
  - `weight` (optional): An integer specifying the relative probablity of optaining this variant. If ommitted, it will be encoded ad `1`.
- `spr_maps`: An ordered table of sprite map data. Each entry is, itself, a table that specifies a sprite the pet uses, represented by an area in the cart's map data. These tables have the following fields:
  - `x`, `y`: Integer co-ordinates of the top-left of the sprite in the map data
  - `w`, `h`: The width and height of the sprite in the map data
  - `key`: a string for which this sprite is called. See below for sprite usage.

To easily save the encoded data, run the cart.
When run, the encoded data will be displayed superimposed over the sprite sheet.
Make sure the encoded data isn't covering the sprites.
Press F7 to capture the data + the sprites as the cart's label.
In a text editor, replace the sprite sheet with the label.
The data from the previous capture does not need to be cleared, as length data is also encoded.

#### Sprite Usage

Currently these are the only sprite keys used:
- `hd`: 32x32 black-outlined single sprite used on the home screen.
- `thumbnail`: 16x16 unoutlined single sprite used in animations. A automatically downscaled version is used in the `maze` minigame.
- `body`, `head`, and `eye`: 32x32 black-outlined multiple sprite used in the collection viewer. Allows for limited part-wise animation.

### Minigames

Minigame add-on carts are executable; thus they do not follow a specific format.
Generally, they should include a `load_data()` call on startup and a `save_data()` call on exit.
Minigames can return to the main cart via `extcmd("breadcrumb")`
Carts prefixed with an underscore will be hidden outside of Grim Mode.